---
layout: post
title:  "MOOCs"
date:   2014-09-29 14:00:08
categories: MOOC Learning MachineLearning
comments: true
---

My first blog post on my new personal site! 
Anyone wishing to create a small site to act almost as a CV should check out [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) and the accompanying [Github pages](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages)
 to set up a simple and free site.

Ive spent the day with [Courseras](https://www.coursera.org/) fantastic machine learning course. 
Im going to stay away from my opinion on the actual course material until later in the course, but rather talk about the advantages of a Massive Open Online Courses  (MOOC).
The problem in a traditional lecture is that transfering knowledge between a student and a lecturer isnt a perfect process.
There are times where students get distracted (Or sometimes they even pay attention) or fall behind for any number of reasons.
With the interactive way the MOOC is structured, this hasnt been a problem for me.
I end up far behind in most lecture due to the fact I cant write with any sort of speed, and doing so causes errors and illegible handwriting of the highest degree.
Being able to pause to take notes and rewatch a section again makes this one of the bbest lectures Ive ever attended (the fact that I can sit at my desk with a coffee helps too).

The other main advantage I can see so far is that it solves the problem of student engagement.
This is a tricky thing to address, as the same class can have differing levels of engagement at different times, and even on good days it may be two or three students answering for the other 100,Obviously not ideal.
However the MOOC pauses the lecture and asks every student a question, no stress of being wrong or being put on the spot with a time limit, a great solution.

I dont think that its a problem with the way physical lectures are executed, but rather something that the best universities have strived for. To give a personal, interactive course with plenty of feedback to each student.

Those are my quick thoughts on the MOOC so far (and not just an excuse to test out my shiny new blog)

